# Lloseng

This repository contains a copy of [code available to students](https://github.com/TimLethbridge/Lloseng)
using the book [Object-Oriented Software Engineering: Practical Software
Development using UML and Java](http://www.site.uottawa.ca/school/research/lloseng/), 2nd Edition, 2004 McGraw Hill.
by [Timothy C. Lethbridge](http://www.eecs.uottawa.ca/~tcl) and
[Robert Laganière](http://www.eecs.uottawa.ca/~laganier).

# Lab 2

Assignment Submission before September 28, 9:30am using [BrightSpace](https://uottawa.brightspace.com/)

You can clone this repository using the following invitation

```
https://classroom.github.com/g/s_NMrvbq
```

Group work and partners: In this lab, and all other labs that involve programming, you
will work in **groups of two**. If you have not previously arranged to work with someone
in your lab section, then you will have to find someone immediately. If there are an
odd number of students, the TA may permit an individual to work alone for now.
No groups of 3 will be permitted.

## Format

Your repository should be named \[prefix\]-\[student-number-1\]_\[student-number-2\], for example


```
lab02-1484511_90210901210
```

When finished, submit a text file named after your student numbers (xxxxx_yyyyy.txt)
with the lower student number first.  For example,

```
lab02-1484511_90210901210.txt
```

Within the file please include:

* Your names and students numbers
* A link to your last commit in your lab02 branch in GitHub
* A link to your pull request (PR) of lab02 branch into master

For example

```
Andrew Forward 1484511
Ayana Nurse 90210901210
https://github.com/professor-forward/lab02-1484511_90210901210/commit/a7187f5a2270495e02adb52b9eb0746d52c3d63b
https://github.com/professor-forward/lab02-1484511_90210901210/pull/1
```

Your GitHub repository should contain all solutions to the Assignment 1/Lab2,
no solution submissions via BrightSpace will be evaluated. 
Only the information above should be submitted to BrightSpace.


## Logistics

### Seating

In the early labs, each group will use one computer, although you will need an extra computer when you are doing later labs involving client-server work.

#### Saving work and accounts

Your TA will give you any needed help regarding setting up your account.
Before you leave the lab each day, make sure you have saved, committed and pushed
your work.

#### Using Eclipse

You will be using Eclipse in this lab. [Instructions on how to get started](http://www.site.uottawa.ca/~mgarz042/SEG2105/assignments/Lab1_Getting_Started.html)
in the lab.


#### Exercises

Work on the following exercises from the textbook. You must hand in
only one copy of answers per group. Make sure the names and student numbers
of both partners are clearly indicated. You must work on these questions
during the lab and then finish off the work on your own time.

## Analysis of various design alternatives

1. Before coming to the lab, you are asked to read and understand Section 2.9 of
the textbook, starting on page 57. If you have not done this, take five
minutes now to do it.

2. This Lab/Assignment will focus on [PointCP](/pointcp) from this repository,
so all instructions will be relative to that directory.

```
cd pointcp
```

Before making any changes, compile the code and make sure it runs.

```
javac PointCP.java PointCPTest.java
```

To run the program

```
java PointCPTest
```

Now create a branch for this lab called `f/lab02`

```
git checkout -b f/lab02
```

## PointCP

All modifications should be done within the `/pointcp` directory
of your `f/lab02` branch.  When finished, please create a pull request
back into `master` to clearly highlight the code you have written.

3. By modifying the original version, implement the following designs.

* design 2 (edit code in `/design2` directory)
* design 3 (edit code in `/design3` directory)
* design 6 (edit code in `/design6` directory)

4. Modify the `PointCPTest` class to allow you to test the designs you
have developed. Do a thorough series of tests to ensure your classes
and interface work properly.

5. Overwrite the [OUTPUT.md](/pointcp/OUTPUT.md) to clearly provide a printout
of the output generated by your tests for each design.  Clearly
indiciate which design the output is from.

Answer the following exercises in the provided `EXX.md` files
using [GitHub Markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/).

* Overwrite [E26](/pointcp/E26.md) (table of what you think will be the advantages and disadvantages of designs 2, 3 and 6)
* Overwrite [E28](/pointcp/E28.md) (performance analysis, comparing all three designs you have implemented instead of Design 1 with Design 5 as the book says)
* Overwrite [E29](/pointcp/E29.md) (similar as E28)
* Overwrite [E30](/pointcp/E30.md) (similar as E28)

To do this evaluation (of E26, E28-E30), for each design create random instances and
then call each method many thousands of times, and then find the elapsed time in milliseconds
for the fixed number of iterations. Make sure that your program runs each time for about
10 seconds, so you get a good measure of performance. Test each method separately.
Run each version several times to ensure that your results are consistent and use
the median result as your definitive result, plus give the maximum and minimum.

| Design | How cartesian coordinates are computed | How polar coordinates are computed |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Design 2: Store polar coordinates only | Computed on demand, but not stored| Simply returned |
| Design 3: Store cartesian coordinates only | Simply returned | Computed on demand, but not stored |
| Design 6: Interface with designs 2 and 3 as classes implementing it. | Depends on the concrete class used | Depends on the concrete class used |

6. Overwrite the [TESTING.md](/pointcp/TESTING.md) file and clearly describe

* how you did the tests,
* sample outputs from running the tests
* the table and
* a discussion of the results.

## ARRAYS

7. Compare the performance of ArrayList, Vector and ordinary arrays.
You should do a series of experiments where you do each of the
following tests with the three types of collection,
timing the execution of each run.

You should run each case several times on the same computer to
obtain stable average timings.

a. Construct very large collections by putting random integers into each collection one at a time. The random integers should range in value from zero to nine. You should make each collection large enough so that the run takes at least 10 seconds to add the integers in the case of an ArrayList. You will have to do some initial experiments to find out what is a good size. You would use the same size of collection for ArrayList, Vector and the array. The ArrayList and Vector can be created by successively adding items and allowing them to grow, while the array has to be created at its full size and then populated with its contents. You could also try to experiment with the case where you do create the ArrayList and Vector initially with their full size.

b. Construct very large collections as in (a). Then use iterators to sum the elements. Subtract the construction time to get a measure of how much time the iteration takes. Use a for loop for the array, and an Iterator for the Vector and ArrayList.

Overwrite the [ARRAY.md](/pointcp/ARRAY.md) to present your data in
suitable tables and draw conclusions from an analysis of the data.
From your conclusions, develop recommendations to designers.

If you have questions related to the assignment? Please use the Piazza forums!
